This extensive marshland (pronounced "shry-kunn") derives its name from Lord Artran Shrieken, once of Milbome, a cruel and heartless villain who attempted to force one of the young Parlfray women to marry him. She fled into the mire with her paramour, and Shrieken pursued her, only to meet a watery end in one of the marsh's more dangerous areas. The area has had a sinister, and well-deserved, reputation ever since. Treacherous, uncertain footing and hidden pools of water can suck a person or horse down in an instant. Poisonous snakes are plentiful here, and in summer the mosquitoes and other insects of the marsh are irritating and potentially dangerous. There are many local yams about Shrieken's curse, claiming that his restless spirit wanders the mire, bemoaning its fate and seeking to strangle the life out of any who come here. Certainly livestock does disappear now and then, though Ihis is mostly blamed on the lizard men who dwell deep in the mire (DM's note: there are lizard men here, but they are shy and avoid human contact; some of the missing animals are sucked down in the bogs, while most are carried off by Inzeldrin, the green dragon). No one comes here who can avoid it or goes deeper into the mire than they must. This is a good area for PCs to avoid for as long as they can.

The walls of Milborne, the nearby human village were built some 40 years past as a defense against the then-marauding lizard men of the Shrieken Mire. Led by a ferocious lizard king, the creatures killed scores of villagers and farmers—fully half the town's population—until Count Parlfray hired a band of powerful fighters to track down and kill their leader. Since this time, the lizard men have become much more reclusive and tend to flight if they see any humans or demihumans; they clearly have memories of the battle when the fighters wiped out nearly a hundred of their number.

 Inzeldrin, an Old green dragon, considers herself the Queen of the Mire. She sleeps most of the time and, while evil, she can't be bothered to go raiding and pillaging (it's so much easier to go invisible on those rare occasions when she's in the mood to nab some livestock for supper). Satisfied with the obeisance and offerings she receives from the lizard men, Inzeldrin ignores the people and livestock outside her little "kingdom"—they're hardly worth the effort.

An oddity of Shrieken Mire, the origins of which is known by none of its inhabitants is the emergence of strange ruins scattered all across the marshland. These ruins are fragments of a Bygone Kingdom that have traveled through the waters of The Old Chaos. The temple, that has barreled through time and space, was used to seal Ghylsharra, the spirit Naga exarch of Asmodeus. After being freed by the players actions, she has left the region in order to carry out her plans long in the making. In her wake, it appears fiends from the abyss are also slipping through cracks in the material plane and are a new threat in the region.

Encounters

Four Thurmaster folk are found bludgeoned to death on the margins of the Shrieken Mire, where they had been fishing and gathering marshland plants. Huge footprints—obviously those of giants—were found nearby. The giants can be tracked some distance into the mire, but not to their lair. What's more, an excitable young shepherd boy claims to have seen a green dragon living over the mire to the south some days before.

This event alarms the locals. No giants have been reported in Haranshire for as long as anyone can recall. For PCs of low level, slugging it out with giants should be effectively impossible, as one hit from a giant means instant death for all but the hardi¬ est low-level character.

it should take the PCs some time to achieve a solu¬ tion to this problem. The raiding giants are two fortio¬ ri ans (HD 13 +3 each, AC 3, Dmg 2d6+8) and their two young offspring (8 HD each, AC 3, Dmg 2d6+3). Every few days, the giants will be back, to take live¬ stock and kill a few more people for sport, and sur¬ vivors will be able to give a good description of the marauders. Killing them is beyond the ability of the PCs or the local militia. One possible solution is to dig pits large enough to trap a giant, cover them, and then try to lure the giants into falling into them. This may work, but the labor involved in digging the pits, the vast area open to the giants for raiding, and the difficulty involved in trapping all the giants at the same time makes this plan difficult at best to put into effect.

A second solution involves the dragon. Inzeldrin,

58

Gazetteer of Jjaransliire

an Old green dragon, considers herself the Queen of the Mire. She sleeps most of the time (but will be awake if the PCs find her mound). While evil, she can't be bothered to go raiding and pillaging (it's so much easier to go invisible on those rare occasions when she's in the mood to nab some livestock for supper). Satisfied with the obeisance and offerings she receives from the lizard men, Inzeldrin ignores the people and livestock outside her little "king¬ dom"—they're hardly worth the effort; there's no challenge to it, in her opinion. She really just wants to get on with dozing, daydreaming, pondering the Meaning of Life, and all the other things highly intel¬ ligent reptiles with a few centuries to kill get up to. She won't be hostile when the PCs approach; she knows she can eat them all for a snack without work¬ ing up a sweat, and expects them to know it too. She expects flattery, of course, and a few token offerings would sweeten her mood.

Attacking this dragon is foolish; while compla¬ cent, she's still careful not to allow 1 them to get too close or to let any PC sneak around behind her (with her excellent senses of hearing and smell, she can detect even invisible or hidden characters). If they decide to attack her, be kindly—the dragon may be satisfied with killing half of them and let¬ ting the others run away through the mire (saving throws to avoid the killing bogs applicable). Wise PCs should play on the dragon's sense of possession over the Mire to persuade her to kill or drive off the fomorions (which she can easily do, using breath attacks from the air). Inzeldrin will actually be quite interested in having a fight with something worth the effort. If the PCs need some prodding, have the dragon boast about being Queen of the Mire and explain that she prefers to be left alone and can't be bothered to attack the feeble, puny little humans of the land. This should cue the PCs to make the right suggestion.

Even so, Inzeldrin is a dragon, with all a dragon's sense of a bargain, and will want to know what's in it for her. The fomorians have little treasure and the dragon is no great treasure collector anyway. She will be interested to hear of PC exploits in the mines or keep but will remark that tall tales butter no parsnips. Eventually the PCs and dragon should be able to agree on terms: if Inzeldrin wipes out the giants, the PCs will arrange with the townsfolk to leave tethered livestock for the dragon at regular intervals (say, once every other week or so). In return, the dragon will use her plant growth ability in the summer peak-growing time to help the farm¬ ers grow better crops and increase their yield of ani¬

mal feed. Tlie dragon is Lawful and will abide by the agreement. If the PCs are successful in this, they should earn 750 XP each for a story goal (the DM may also leave some treasure for them in the giants' lair, relics of earlier victims). One of the young giants may still be in the lair if the DM wishes to stage a fight there; one giant is still very dangerous, but the PCs should be able to handle such opposi¬ tion unless they are still only 1st level,

The PCs may not be swift to come up with the idea of enlisting the dragon's help. The key things to impress on players are (1) your characters can't pos¬ sibly tackle a full-grown dragon, (2) the giants would murder them wholesale, and (3) what is there in the area that could possibly deal with giants? Don't let the PCs rely too heavily on the rangers here; let them work out a solution to this problem by themselves.

The DM may decide that Inzeldrin has some passing knowledge of what lies behind the kidnap¬ pings. She may know that there is a nest of ores beneath the Garlstone Mine, for example, or even that there are routes to the underdark below the mines. She may know of Fandruzsch the shadow dragon (see Book II), She may be aware that there are priests of Myrkul-Cyric/Nerull/Thanatos in the area, though not exactly where (though Inzeldrin is certain none are close by—that is, not in the Mire itself). She certainly remembers the old keep in the Thomwood and knows its location. Since dragons know a lot of things, and can plausi¬ bly refuse to be interrogated as to how they know them, this is a useful way for the DM to alert the PCs to the wider scope of what may be awaiting them below the mines or keep.

Inzeldrin, Old Green Dragon: AC —4; MV 9, fly 30 (C), swim 9; HD 17; hp 77; THACO 3; #AT 3 or I; Dmg ld8+8/ld8+8/2d10+8 (daw/claw/bite) or 16d6+8 (breath weapon); SA breathe doud of poi¬ sonous chlorine gas (50' long by 40' wide and 30' high), spells ,fair aura (90' radius); SD immune to all gases, detect invisible and hidden creatures (80'), clairaudience within 160' of lair, spells; .MR 30%; SZ G (80' long plus 72' tail); ML champion (16); Int very (12); AL LE; XP 16,000. Special abili¬ ties water breathing (at will), suggestion (once per day), warp wood (thrice per day), plant growth (once per day). Spells (cast as if 14th level): invisibility, protection from normal missiles, magic missiles, shield; speak with anim